## Interface Design Thesis

### Introduction
Design is so much more to us than just the styling of buttons, typography or the elements you interact with. Design is the system as a whole, it’s simplicity, it’s ease of use and it’s structure. Most importantly, design is how the system makes you feel when you use it. With this system, we’re approaching design with two main elements of focus: simplicity and intuitiveness. These may seem like trivial key points to focus on - simplicity typically defined as the absence of clutter and only using two to three colours. 

### Simplicity
But simplicity is actually one of the more complicated things to perfect. It’s not just removing what’s not necessary, it’s showing only what is necessary. It’s the ability to immediately interact with a system without prior experience. It’s seamlessly connecting technology with humanity, which is what we’re aiming to achieve with this pest tracking system.

### Intuitiveness
Like with all software, intuitiveness is the difference between a system that can handle complex tasks and a system that helps you get the those tasks done. Subtle additions to the normal user interface like drag-to-upload sections and dependent selectors don’t just provide a new and easier way of doing something, it sets the standard for how an intuitive user interface should function. And it’s keeping that same level of intelligence and clarity throughout the system that makes it a worthwhile interface to use and develop.

### Front-End Architecture and Scalability
We’ve taken to the web as a means to instantly deploy our system to the world, and in doing so, we’ve opened up totally new avenues of design. Using a system comprised of various front-end architecture tools, we’re able to create incredibly large pages in a short amount of time while still maintaining scalability, order and beautiful design. Using Yeoman, we scaffold out a web app architecture which gives us all the stuff we need to get started. Yeoman comes with Grunt, a command line deployment tool, which allows us to run a testing server and automate all of our system compilation. It also comes with Bower, a package manager for the web, which allows us to instantly fetch and install the packages we need from the internet. We combine this with an incredibly scalable object-oriented CSS library like Bootstrap, a Javascript wrapper library like jQuery and a few other handy libraries to create a powerful foundation for the Pest Tracking System’s front-end architecture and interface.

### Responsive Design
In the last few years, the web has seen an huge expansion onto the mobile market. Smartphones and tablets now have the ability to render most modern web pages correctly, resulting in a growing percentage of consumers using them as a primary platform for visiting websites. We’ve used this to our advantage, and created a system that can be used on anything with a screen and an internet connection. This means we can cater for any smartphone, tablet or laptop used to report pest sightings in a NSW national park without the need for dependencies. Since it’s not a native iOS or Android app, it will render properly regardless of a device’s hardware or accompanying software.

### Design Language
The most common understanding of a system’s “design” is the design language - it’s what we see and interact with on so many different levels. We’ve decided to head for simplicity and minimalism. But why should this matter? The role of minimalism is not just to keep the interface junk-free. It’s a system of it’s own that we have to develop - modern and sophisticated. Nobody wants to use a system that hinders them in terms of functionality and design, so the aim is not to get rid of everything that’s big and complicated - it’s about bringing a sense of order to complexity. We consider everything - from the typography, colours, layout and even what icons we use. In order to achieve something like this, you quite literally have to start small.

### Mobile-First Design
When responsive design was first invented, we used a concept called “graceful degradation”. Aptly named, since it focused on stripping away complicated content as you worked down towards mobile. This worked fine for a while, still does. But what we’re left with isn’t responsive design. It’s a stripped design. That’s why, instead of working our way down from desktop, we work our way up from mobile. This is called “progressive enhancement” - keeping the same design throughout the platforms and only enhancing it by feature detection. This creates a standardised interface among all devices and maintains the simplicity that can exist on a mobile device.

### Conclusion
The proposed user interface provides a multi-platform, hardware and software independent, web-based system which benefits the customer by offering them a system accessible to any user with a device that has internet access. Since the client base for the system is quite diverse, we will run user acceptance testing on the interface with a wide range of users to ensure the interface is easily understandable, and most of all usable.