## Unit

Our Rails unit testing focuses on 6 attributes - automation, thoroughness, repeatability, professionalism, independence and speed. Automation is already covered for us by Rails, which provides the framework for invoking tests and returning passes and fails. Thoroughness relates to coverage - although bugs tend to cluster in certain areas, like those with input fields and forms, we ensure that our system's units are distinctively tested in all key paths and scenarios.

Repeatability simply refers to making sure tests produce the same results each time if nothing has changed and aren't influenced by trivial factors and uncontrollable parameters. Independence refers to our unit tests focusing on one area at a time to ensure each file passes by itself and doesn't rely on other units to succeed. Professionalism refers to avoiding ambiguous methods and attribute names, duplication and generally poor testing, and speed simply focuses on making sure tests take less than half a second to run.

We implemented the Ruby on Rails native unit testing system. This held many benefits to our project as we could construct not only test data that would pass the cases, but also test data that would fail. What we mean by this is that we could create cases with deliberately incorrect data and tell rails "this should fail". We found this exceptionally useful as even though all your cases may pass, it does not mean that what should not work, will not work. Having explicit fail cases allows us to guarantee that incorrect inputs will not be given. This provides a lot of the automation, thoroughness and reliability we look for due to it being a native component coded for efficiency.

Another benefit of Rails unit testing is that the test templates are created by a simple command according to the current schema. The test files can then be populated with positive and negative cases, that can all be triggered either independently or simultaneously through yet again, just one simple command in the shell.